Reorg astro runtime (#2726)
astronomer/docs: astro/runtime-overview.md

---
sidebar_label: "Astro Runtime"
title: "Astro Runtime "
id: runtime-overview
description: Learn about what is Astro Runtime, it's architecture and features
---

[Astro Runtime](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/astro-runtime) is a debian-based Docker image for running Airflow that's built and maintained by Astronomer. Every Astro project and Deployment is configured with a version of Astro Runtime. Astro Runtime is a requirement for deploying to Astro and using Astro CLI.

Use this document to understand the architecture of Astro Runtime and its features.

> ## Architecture

Reviewer: I know that "architecture" is an ambiguous concept, but I wouldn't consider this image or its features as "architecture". In all fairness, I don't think the existing doc is much of an "architecture" doc either. I would:

- Move Astro Runtime overview + diagram to a single topic in the Concepts doc
- Rewrite this content as "Astro Runtime image reference". The content here gets really technical for just an overview

Or, per the original issue, keep this doc **short and sweet** to summarize the benefits of Runtime vs. Airflow.

> Astro Runtime utilizes OSS Apache Airflow at its core and extends it with additional layers to provide your organization with improved functionality, reliability, efficiency, and performance.

Reviewer: Sorry but I still really don't think this description is accurate. Astronomer providers and the Astro SDK are not a "layer" of Runtime. A user doesn't ever have to use an Astronomer provider if they don't want to, so why are we showing it here as a sort of centralized aspect of Runtime? 

If this image is meant to sell Runtime to newcomers, I could see it deterring a group of users that _only_ want a reliable Airflow experience, which is a large reason why people use Runtime in the first place. If I'm that user, I don't want to deal with providers or the SDK or OpenLineage, I just want extended support. And this image makes it look like "Sorry, you'll have to use all of these things if you just want to run Airflow".

Author: I don't think how to explain this tbh.

> <!-- ![Astro Runtime overview](/img/docs/runtime-overview.png)  -->

Reviewer: What if instead of a diagram, we had a table that showed the similarities/ differences between OSS Airflow and Runtime in terms of supported features and functionality? I think that would mean a lot more to someone trying to understand what value Runtime has (and it also means it's a lot easier for us to edit in the future when we inevitably add more features).

---
sidebar_label: "Astro Runtime"
title: "Astro Runtime architecture and features"
id: runtime-overview
description: Learn about what is Astro Runtime, it's architecture and features
---

> Astro Runtime is a [debian-based Docker image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/astro-runtime) for running Airflow that's built and maintained by Astronomer. It is the most reliable and efficient way for teams to run data pipelines, bundling Apache Airflow with optimized configurations and commercial add-ons that make it faster and more powerful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The _Astro Runtime_ is a [debian-based Docker image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/astro-runtime) for running Airflow that's built and maintained by Astronomer. It is the most reliable and efficient way for teams to run data pipelines, bundling Apache Airflow with optimized configurations and commercial add-ons that make it faster and more powerful.
```

> Astro Runtime utilizes OSS Apache Airflow at its core and extends it with additional layers to provide your organization with improved functionality, reliability, efficiency, and performance. With OSS Airflow as it base, it focusses on improving the following areas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astro Runtime uses OSS Apache Airflow at its core and extends it to provide your organization with improved functionality, reliability, efficiency, and performance. With OSS Airflow as its base, Astro Runtime focuses on improving the following areas:
```

| Area | Improvements | 
|:----:|---------|
| Performance | - Capability for deferrable operators, hooks and sensors using [Astronomer providers package](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/astronomer-providers/versions/1.17.3) <p> - Capability to develop ETL workflows with ease using [Astro SDK package](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-sdk) </p> |
| Stability | - Custom logging for task logs directly to cloud storage <p> - Ability to auto-scale </p> | 
| Security | - Expedited [vulnerability fixes and backport support](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md#backport-policy-for-bug-and-security-fixes) <p> - Support for role-based access control (RBAC) using a custom security manager </p> |

> Every version of Astro Runtime correlates to an Apache Airflow version. Astro Runtime is a requirement for using Astro CLI and deploying to Astro. Hence, every Astro project and Deployment is configured with a version of Astro Runtime. See [Astro Runtime and Airflow version mapping](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md#astro-runtime-airflow-and-python-version-mapping).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every version of Astro Runtime correlates to an Apache Airflow version. Astro Runtime is a requirement for using the Astro CLI and deploying code to Astro. Therefore, every Astro project and Deployment is configured with a version of Astro Runtime. See [Astro Runtime and Airflow version mapping](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md#astro-runtime-airflow-and-python-version-mapping).
```

> See [Astro Runtime maintenance and security](runtime-version-lifecycle-policy.md) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Since we have the link mentioned directly preceding this, I think we probably don't need them back to back.
